Datasource Experiment: World Bank indicators (#42)
skuid/skuid-labs: experiments/dataSources/worldBank/readme.md

> # Analyse World Bank statictical data in Skuid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Analyze World Bank statistical data in Skuid
```

Rob Hatch, typos in the title. I am aghast.

> The World Bank provides free and open access to global development data.  Information like GDP, Population, Economic growth and Development measures are available for your Skuid pages. This is one of the easiest API to interact with. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The World Bank provides free and open access to global development data.  Information like GDP, Population, Economic growth and Development measures are available for your Skuid pages. This is one of the easiest APIs to interact with. 
```

Reviewer: Copy nitpick: you say this is the easiest API here, and then you say it again in the next paragraph while also explaining why.

I'd say you could just cut this sentence here and leave the one with explanation below.

Some introductory links with information about this API from the World Bank Website: 
-  [Overview of the data available through this API](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/889386-developer-information-overview) 

> - [About the API:](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/889392)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [About the API](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/889392)
```

> - [The Basic Call Structure:](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/898581)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [The Basic Call Structure](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/898581)
```

This API is exposed without any authentication - which makes it super easy to use in Skuid. It is a great way to explore the following concepts in Skuid:
- Searching / filtering for a particular record.
- Using stastical data in dashboards. 

## How to use this data source

### Create the data source

First you'll need to create a new REST data source. 
* Type: REST
* Name: WorldBank
* URL / Endpoint: ``http://api.worldbank.org/v2/``
* Use Proxy: False
* Authentication Method: No Authentication

#### Double check the remote site setting

> * If you are using Skuid on Salesforce, you will be prompted to appove the creation of a remote site setting for this data source. If your pages do not work, you might need to edit it.  Check in Salesforce Setup at **Security > Remote site settings**.   

Reviewer: We should note what the values of this remote site setting should be. Skuid didn't create mine when I made the data source.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are using Skuid on Salesforce, you will be prompted to appove the creation of a remote site setting for this data source. If your pages do not work, you might need to edit it.  Check in Salesforce Setup at **Security > Remote site settings**.  

If the remote site setting is not present, create a new one and enter these values:

Remote Site Name: WorldBank
Remote Site URL: http://api.worldbank.org
```

Reviewer: We should note what the values of this remote site setting should be. Skuid didn't create mine when I made the data source.

#### Create a CORS entry

* Allowing the browser to retrieve data directly is the fastest method for data sources (as opposed to using the Server Proxy), but if you are using Skuid on Salesforce, you will be required that you whitelist the endpoint so you don't have a CORS violation.
* Within Salesforce Setup, go to **Security > CORS**.
* Create a new entry - generally it will be the same domain where you ultimately intend to host the page. ``https://<<mydomain>>.visual.force.com``

### Create a page with this REST data source to review World Bank statistics

> 

Reviewer: Man... This feels like a lot to do just to get a working model, especially when we already have nice sample pages. Do you think it'd be better to put the Sample Pages section *above* this, and then say "if you want a technical explanation of how we set up these models, read below"?

Author: I'm going to leave this order, but add a parenthetical note below the "create a new page" line.

- Create a new page

- Create a model that returns GDP data for all countries.  
    - Data Source Type: REST
    - Data Source: WorldBank
    - Model Behavior: Read-Only
    - Data Source URL: ``countries/ALL/indicators/SP.POP.TOTL?format=json``
    - All other properties can be default. 

> NOTE about Path to Contents:  Because WorldBank puts nests in JSON - the root is just metadata about the call.  In order to get tot he data iteslf, you have to go into the XML and indicate that the path to contents = ``1``.   See the example xml below:  (See final attribute of node) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE about Path to Contents: WorldBank nests data within JSON, so the root response payload is just metadata about the call.  In order to get to the data itself, you have to go into the XML and indicate that the path to contents = ``1``.   See the example XML below:  (See final attribute of node) 
```

``<model id="Sources" query="true" createrowifnonefound="false" datasource="WorldBank" verb="GET" payloadcontenttype="JSON" endpoint="/sources?format=json" pathtocontent="1">``

Once you have done this in XML you can go back to the composer. (Once you have one model set up this way,  clone the model to set up the next one and you will not have to go back to the XML to set "path to contents")

- Select "Fields" on the model properties to add the following fields to your model: 
    - countryiso3code
    - date
    - value

## Page Ideas

- Add a table to your page to quickly see the data being returned. 
- Use a chart to see data changing over time

> - Replace the ``ALL`` value in the Data Source URL with ``{{Country}}`` - and use another model to populate that merge value with another ISO-3 Country value.  (BRA for Brasil). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace the ``ALL`` value in the Data Source URL with ``{{Country}}`` - and use another model to populate that merge value with another ISO-3 Country value.  (e.g. BRA for Brasil). 
```

> - Create a "countries" model  (This API call will return countries:  ``http://api.worldbank.org/v2/country?format=json ``) and then use an action sequence to pass a particular row value into the merge syntax in the Data source above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a "countries" model  (This API call will return countries:  ``http://api.worldbank.org/v2/country?format=json ``) and then use an action sequence to pass a particular row value into the merge syntax in the data source URL above. 
```

## Sample Page

Two sample pages are included in this experiment.  Create a new V2 Page and copy the XML from these pages for more fully constructed examples. 

> ### WorldBankSources

Reviewer: I'm prompted for metadata example values here. Let's list good example values for each page. 

e.g. 
- Country: `ESP`
- Indicator: Something.. I'm honestly not sure what to put here. Would the `SP.POP.TOTL` you used above work?

Reviewer: @Rnhatch Still need metadata examples here.

> - This page provides an index of all the statistical measures provided by the World Bank - along with the URL you'd need to use to create a model for this measure, and a sample dataset queried for this measure.

Reviewer: This page looks great, but can you disable the step buttons to prevent users from clicking ahead in the wizard before step data has actually been queried? I can click to steps 2 and 3 before there is any data.

Author: Sure

> ### WorldBankDashboard

Reviewer: This page requires many example values.

We have to give tell a country several times, and then a `region`. What example values do we put here?

Reviewer: @Rnhatch Need metadata example values here too.

> - This page allows the user to select a single country (from a statstical region) and then shows several tabs of statical measures about the country. 

Reviewer: This seems a little buggy. Several regions I select offer no countries, and thus I can't do anything on the page. For example, this option—Africa—doesn't allow me to do anything. Is this intended behavior?

Reviewer: Other seem to have odd behaviors, like `Carribean small states > Bahamas, The` displays nothing on the Poverty and Inequality tabs. Other tabs work fine, even the `Inequality` tab which has a notice: "No data to display." Is that notice on the first tab as well?

Reviewer: After selecting a Country for the first time, selecting a different country breaks the page:

![Screen Shot 2020-02-26 at 1 34 10 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7629304/75375761-bf8c3200-589c-11ea-8226-bed4d60f8743.png)

Author: Some Regions do not return country values.  I added some client side conditions to remove regions that don't return countries,  I will add some more.

Reviewer: That makes sense. Since we don't know all of them at this time, I'd consider putting a note in this README that describes your client-side condition work around.
